[documentation] #2192: Review contributing guidelines (#2219)
hyperledger/iroha: CONTRIBUTING.md

Reading these guidelines will save you time later.

## How Can I Contribute?

There are a lot ways you could contribute to our project:

- Report [bugs](#reporting-bugs) and [vulnerabilities](#reporting-vulnerabilities)
- [Suggest improvements](#suggesting-improvements) and implement them
- [Ask questions](#asking-questions) and engage with the community

New to our project? [Make your first contribution](#your-first-code-contribution)!

### TL;DR

* Find [ZenHub](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/iroha-v2-60ddb820813b9100181fc060/board?repos=181739240).
* Fork [Iroha](https://github.com/hyperledger/iroha/tree/iroha2-dev).
* Fix your issue of choice.
* Ensure you follow our [style guides](#style-guides) for code and documentation.
* Write [tests](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/commands/cargo-test.html). Ensure they all pass (`cargo test`).
* Fix [`clippy`](https://lib.rs/crates/cargo-lints) warnings: `cargo lints clippy --workspace --benches --tests --examples --all-features`.
* Format code `cargo +nightly fmt --all` and generate docs `cargo run --bin kagami -- docs >"docs/source/references/config.md" && git add "docs/source/references/config.md"`.

> * `git pull -r hyperledger iroha2-dev`, `git commit -s`, `git push <your-fork>`, and [create a pull request](https://github.com/hyperledger/iroha/compare) to the `iroha2-dev` branch on GitHub. Ensure the PR has the `[type] #<issue number>: Description` [title](#pull-request-titles).

Reviewer: Should probably be `git pull -r upstream iroha2-dev` here. Could be beneficial to explain how to set upstream to track tho original repo for your fork as well, but maybe not in a tl;dr.

Reviewer 2: Depends. I call it `upstream` for uniformity. `hyperledger` is less ambiguous.

Author: > Could be beneficial to explain how to set upstream to track the original repo for your fork as well, but maybe not in a tl;dr section.

I can add links to github docs on this: https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/configuring-a-remote-for-a-fork
I don't think we need to add these instructions here

Author: > Depends. I call it `upstream` for uniformity. `hyperledger` is less ambiguous.

<img width="641" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17865025/169018571-75399c8c-f623-4be7-96ed-773801be5c88.png">

what about this?

5. When you are ready to commit your changes, read the [pull request guidelines](#pull-request-etiquette).

## Pull Request Etiquette

Please [fork](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) the [repository](https://github.com/hyperledger/iroha/tree/iroha2-dev) and [create a feature branch](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-and-deleting-branches-within-your-repository) for your contributions. When working with **PRs from forks**, check [this manual](https://help.github.com/articles/checking-out-pull-requests-locally).

Working on code contribution:
- Follow the [Rust Style Guide](#rust-style-guide) and the [Documentation Style Guide](#documentation-style-guide).
- Ensure that the code you've written is covered by tests. If you fixed a bug, please turn the minimum working example that reproduces the bug into a test.

Committing your work:
- Follow the [Git Style Guide](#git-style-guide).
- Squash your commits [either before](https://www.git-tower.com/learn/git/faq/git-squash/) or [during the merge](https://rietta.com/blog/github-merge-types/).

> - If during the preparation of your pull request your branch got out of date, **DO NOT USE THE GitHub merge branch button**.

Reviewer: Could mention that while using the default merge branch button is advised against, the same button has a drop down option for rebasing and that one does its job perfectly fine.

Reviewer 2: At the time of writing the `update with Rebase` wasn't an option. Now it is. So the information needs to be updated. 

There's also hope that we can convince Hyperledger to allow some branches to be `merged` rather than `rebased` particularly for large works.

Author: updated

To pass the *`check-PR-title`* check, the pull request should have the title that follows this schema:

```
[type] #<issue number>: Description
```

<details> <summary> Expand to read the detailed title guidelines</summary>

1. Put the type of pull request into square brackets as the first part of the title. This can be `feature`, `fix`, `ci`, `documentation`, and `refactor`. Example:

    ```
    [feature] #1623: Implement a `RawGenesisBlockBuilder`
    ```

2. Add the issue number the pull request addresses:
   
   - For `feature` and `fix` adding the issue number to the title is mandatory.
   - For all other types it is optional but highly encouraged.
   
   If your pull request solves multiple issues simultaneously, you can chain them with commas:

   ```
   [fix] #1234, #2345, #4567: Fix lots of problems
   ```

3. Add the colon before the description:

   ```
   [refactor]: Tidy `p2p` crate
   [feature] #1623: Implement a `RawGenesisBlockBuilder`
   [fix] #1234, #2345, #4567: Fix lots of problems
   ```

4. Start the description using imperative verb in present tense. Examples: Implement, Add, Update.

</details>

> ### Git Style Guide

Author: it was originally there and I pulled it out of it to move closer to the pull requests info

> ### Git Style Guide

Reviewer 2: A back-reference could be helpful.

> ### Git Style Guide

Author: added a reference

- [Fork](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) the [repository](https://github.com/hyperledger/iroha/tree/iroha2-dev) and [create a feature branch](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-and-deleting-branches-within-your-repository) for your contributions.
- Use the [Git Rebase Workflow](https://git-rebase.io/). Avoid using `git pull`. Use `git pull --rebase` instead.

Follow these commit guidelines:

- **Sign-off every commit**. If you don't, [DCO](https://github.com/apps/dco) will not let you merge.
  

>   You may use `git commit -s` to automatically add `Signed-off-by: $NAME <$EMAIL>` as the final line of your commit message.

Reviewer: Might make sense to also add that both the name and e-mail should be exactly the same as listed in the contributor's github account, otherwise later we run into some new problems with DCO when we merge from `iroha2-dev` into `iroha2` as we recently learned. Also could mention that signing with GPG is welcome (`git commit -S`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  You should use `git commit -s` to automatically add `Signed-off-by: $NAME <$EMAIL>` as the final line of your commit message.
  
  Also note that when you use `git config --global` often first-time users forget to quote their entire name, and due to globbing in shells like `bash`, `zsh` and `fish`, only the first name is actually added to the sign-off. 
  
  Also, we would appreciate if your name in the sign-off matched the username on GitHub. Having a mismatch of the type "Sam H. Smith" vs. "Sam Smith" is OK, (although annoying), while a mismatch "L33t H4xxor" vs. "John Smith" is problematic.
```

Author: updated

- Write a meaningful commit message.
- Try keeping a commit message short.
- If you need to have a longer commit message:
  - Limit the first line of your commit message to 50 characters or less.
  - The first line of your commit message should contain the summary of the work you've done. If you need more than one line, leave a blank line between each paragraph and describe your changes in the middle. The last line must be the sign-off.
- If you modify the Schema (check by generating the schema with `kagami schema` and diff), you should make all changes to the schema in a separate commit with the message `[schema]`.
- Try to stick to one commit per meaningful change.
  - If you fixed several issues in one PR, give them separate commits.
  - As mentioned previously, changes to the `schema` and the API should be done in appropriate commits separate from the rest of your work.
  - Don't bother with separate commits for fixing review comments. Amend the last one, unless the review comment asks to change the `schema`-affecting work. In that case, you want to rebase interactively.
  - Add tests for functionality in the same commit as that functionality.

## Tests and Benchmarks

> - To run the source-code based tests, execute [`cargo test`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/commands/cargo-test.html) in the Iroha root.N Note that this is a long process.

Reviewer: A typo here? Also could give a ballpark for test runs. E.g. on my 6th gen i7 Intel the full test suite can take upward of 40 minutes. For weaker setups, it might be okayish to just run the tests in CI after creating the PR, as there it's only 20-25 mins AFAICT.
